# Computing the Convex Hull of a Set of Points in $\mathbb{R}^{2}$
## Using the Graham scan method

Running the script convex_hull_graham_scan_animate.py opens a window and prompts the user to input points in the window by clicking. Upon pressing enter, the script uses the _Graham scan_ algorithm to compute the convex hull of the points and plots the intermediate steps of this process to illustrate how it works.

The Graham scan works by first ordering all the points lexographically (i.e. in order of increasing x-coordinate and also by y-coordinate in the case that the x-coordinates are equal) to form a list called points_list. It then proceeds to compute first the upper part of the convex hull and then the lower part. To compute the upper hull, the algorithm adds the first three points to a list, l_upper, and checks if they form a right-hand turn in the order that they are listed (this can be checked by imagining that the points live in a 2d subspace of R3 and using the 3d cross-product right-hand rule). If they do form a right-hand turn then the next point in points_list is added to l_upper. If they do not form a right-hand turn, the 2nd point of the three is removed from l_upper and then the next point in points_list is added to l_upper. This process is then repeated for the last three points in l_upper and so on until we reach the rightmost point, at this point l_upper is guaranteed to give the upper part of the convex hull. The process is then repeated going right to left to form the lower hull.

In the example gifs, the red crosses are the set of points whose convex hull we wish to find. The red dotted lines represent intermediate steps and the solid blue lines represent segments of the final convex hull.
